[♪ heroic instrumental music playing]
One day.
One day, when he's ready.
[Percy] You think you know who I am,
but you don't.
And if you aren't careful,
you're gonna find out.
[man] When he knows who he is...
[Percy] We know who stole the bolt.
[Luke] His favorite daughter.
Clarisse is the lightning thief.
[Percy]
There's more to this than just the bolt,
something bigger.
Yeah, that's the master bolt.
How is it in your bag?
[man]
...and where he belongs.
[Annabeth] Hades's palace.
The bolt is my brothers' drama,
I don't want any part of it.
Then what do you want?
- My helm!
- [Percy] We're gonna go get your helm.
And when I get back,
you're gonna let my mom go.
Hold fast, Mom.
[ethereal ringing]
[man] And when fate
has revealed to him his true path.
[The Voice] Run away, little hero,
before you get hurt.
[Percy] Kronos.
[man] On that day...
[♪ ominous instrumental music playing]
[man] ...I'll be right by his side.
[sword unsheathing]
[♪ music intensifies]
[♪ dramatic instrumental music playing]
[Luke] Look, you didn't ask
to be a half-blood.
But you are one.
That makes you part of something
bigger than yourself.
[♪ music intensifies]
- [♪ music concludes]
- [wooden swords clacking]
[Percy grunts]
Which is good 'cause...
[♪ whimsical instrumental music playing]
...you clearly
can't handle this on your own.
Thanks for demonstrating that.
Let's work on that disarm.
Luke, I appreciate you taking the time--
But you're weak and wanna quit?
It's just...
when am I ever gonna use this stuff?
[♪ music continues]
I told you.
[grunts] They'll come for me, I know.
They have.
A Fury tried to claw me,
the Minotaur tried to skewer me.
[Percy panting]
And I don't think a disarm
or high guard or...
repost will do any...
[both grunting]
[♪ pensive instrumental music playing]
Riposte.
[panting]
Point is, they don't fight fair.
It's not like there are rules.
Of course there are rules.
See, that's what warfare is.
Knowing the rules...
[♪ music intensifies]
...so you can use them
against your opponent.
What's an example?
There's all kinds of examples.
[♪ tense instrumental music playing]
Like...
Single combat!
[scoffs] What?
- What?
One-on-one,
but I set the terms.
- [♪ music continues]
- If I draw first blood,
I keep the bolt
and you surrender the helm.
[laughing]
Do you accept?
I mean it's your funeral, kid.
Although, just to be clear,
no funeral.
Any trace of you leaves a trace
of my plan, and we can't have that.
It wasn't your plan, though, was it?
It was Kronos.
- [♪ music intensifies]
- It was his idea to frame Poseidon's kid
and steal Hades's helm
and Zeus's bolt to start a war.
What?
Is that where he got to you, too?
Through your dreams?
Gods don't dream, little man...
[raising voice] ...and no one
tells the god of war how to start a fight.
And after you die...
say hi to your mommy for me.
[♪ music building]
[♪ intense instrumental music playing]
[swords clashing]
[grunts]
[grunting]
[yelling]
[♪ music continues]
Wait.
[Percy panting]
[Ares grunts]
[Percy grunting]
[seagulls squawking]
[thunder rumbling]
[♪ tense instrumental music playing]
[panting] I warned you...
if you're not careful...
you'll find out...
[♪ heroic instrumental music playing]
...who I am.
[water rumbling]
[Ares yelling]
[♪ music fades]
[Ares panting]
[groans]
[♪ dramatic instrumental music playing]
- [swords clashing]
- [sword slicing]
[Ares groaning]
[♪ music becomes triumphant]
[Grover] You okay?
You hurt?
And you thought you were just a kid.
[Ares clapping slowly]
[♪ ominous instrumental music playing]
Yay!
That was so cool.
Wanna know what you really won today?
An enemy for life.
Congrats.
[rumbling]
Don't look at his true form!
[♪ music intensifies]
[metallic thud]
[♪ ominous instrumental music playing]
[Annabeth] It's Hades's helm.
[muffled whispers]
[Sally, whispering] Percy.
Percy.
[seagulls squawking]
[♪ music continues]
[♪ music concludes]
[announcer, over radio]
Authorities are warning the public
to expect severe travel delays
as hundreds of flights are grounded
as the FAA closes
most of the country's airspace
in response to violent seismic activity...
- [kettle whistling]
- Mom?
[announcer, over radio] ...a phenomenon
known as ionospheric disturbances.
Sudden ionospheric disturbances, or SID,
are typically caused by solar flares
emitting from the sun's surface.
The solar flares hurl--
[Alecto] Quite something, isn't it?
- Using earthquakes to clear the skies?
- [♪ ominous instrumental music playing]
Lord Poseidon grows bold in his war
against his king.
Hades sent you to retrieve it.
That's been your quest all along.
[♪ music continues]
[metallic clanking]
What are you doing?
Living up to my end of the bargain.
[footsteps approaching]
Tell Hades I expect him to do the same.
Please.
Good luck on Olympus.
Perhaps there will still be
a world left for your mother to return to.
[♪ music intensifies]
What does that mean, "Good luck on..."
Dude.
No.
- I have to.
- [Annabeth] What for?
The quest failed. We missed the deadline.
This is bigger than the quest.
Before we set off, Chiron told me
the last war on Olympus
kicked off World War II down here.
[♪ dramatic instrumental music playing]
We have to get Zeus to call it off.
Returning the bolt is the only way
I can get his attention.
- Percy, you don't want Zeus's attention.
- I gotta tell him about Kronos.
Did you see how frightened Hades was
about the idea of Kronos coming back?
[♪ music continues]
Zeus has to know.
Bringing him the bolt might be enough
to get him to listen.
You two gotta go to camp.
Now that we know who Ares
and Clarisse were working for,
someone has to warn Chiron.
He'll kill you.
You understand that, right?
[Annabeth] Either because he still thinks
you stole the bolt,
or because you're a forbidden kid.
Zeus will never let you leave
Olympus alive.
[scoffs softly]
I'm done running from monsters.
[♪ music becomes somber]
This is too important.
I have to try.
[sighs]
[♪ music continues]
You're gonna need all the luck
you can get.
Just for clarity,
how sure are we you couldn't just explain
everything in an email?
Where's the glory in that?
[♪ music becomes dramatic]
[thunder rumbling]
[low, indistinct chatter]
[security guard] Tour starts by the sign.
Not here for the tour.
[zipper sliding]
I'm here to see Zeus.
[loud, echoing thud]
[electrical thrumming]
I don't have an appointment.
[elevator dings]
[elevator motor whirring]
[door hisses]
[♪ music intensifies]
[Percy] The gods are all-powerful,
but they have to play by the rules.
[Luke] Yes.
And they create demigods
so we can break the rules for them.
Yes!
But if we can break rules and they can't,
shouldn't they be just as afraid of us
as we are of them?
[birds chirping]
What?
Nothing. You're learning fast.
[♪ ominous instrumental music playing]
But you have to be really careful
with this.
What do you mean?
Annabeth is terrified of spiders.
Okay.
But she's a lot bigger than they are.
So, what do you think happens
when she comes across one?
Two things you never wanna be
are small and scary at the same time.
Things that are small and scary...
get squished.
[♪ music concludes]
[♪ dramatic instrumental music playing]
[wind howling]
[zipper sliding]
[electricity thrumming]
- [thrumming concludes]
- [thunder rumbling]
I didn't steal it.
Neither did any of my friends.
We found it.
We got it back.
We tried to get it to you on time, but--
You failed.
Yes.
I did.
But I had to come.
I had to tell you who did steal it.
It was Kronos.
He's behind all of it.
He's emerging from Tartarus, or trying to.
He's gathering strength
and he's coming for all of you.
- You may go.
- [Percy] But--
I know where Kronos is. I put him there.
[sighs]
I know who Kronos is. I am his son.
Of course, he's gathering strength.
Of course, he's coming.
That is what we do.
We snap and plot and strive.
It was only a matter of time
before he did again.
- [♪ ominous instrumental music playing]
- [sighs]
Thank you for the news.
It is the only reason
I'm letting you leave alive.
I have a war to prosecute now,
so when I say, "You may go,"
it means be grateful,
and it means be gone.
But the war can't continue.
- Boy!
- [thunder crashing]
The war proceeds.
And it ends with victory.
You escape with your life.
That is your prize.
What did you think,
that you and I would negotiate?
I thought you might listen.
Kronos wants you to fight my father.
He wants you both weakened.
- I will not be weakened by my brothers.
- [Percy] You already are.
- Your family is a mess.
- [♪ ominous instrumental music playing]
They don't support you
because they love you.
They obey because they're afraid.
Ares, your son,
he turned on you
the moment someone stronger showed up.
Do you really think he'll be the last?
How afraid of you do you think
they'll be when your dad shows up
looking to put you back in your place?
[♪ music intensifies]
- Wait!
- [electricity crackling]
[♪ music becomes dramatic]
I surrender.
What?
[thunder clapping]
[♪ music concludes]
[sighs] Take your victory.
Just spare my son.
[♪ poignant instrumental music playing]
[Zeus] Your forbidden son...
who should have never been born.
The same as your Thalia...
whose bravery still inspires all demigods.
Perseus is one of those heroes
and has shown a measure
of that bravery today.
[scoffing quietly]
[♪ tense instrumental music playing]
[in Ancient Greek]
Who else knows about Father?
Ares, Hades, Hermes. So...
Everyone.
[♪ music continues]
[in English]
I'll have Athena set a meeting.
The whole council.
We'll declare my swift
and crushing victory...
and then discuss...
family business.
[♪ music intensifies]
Make sure I never see this one again.
- [thunder crashing]
- [♪ music concludes]
[exhales]
Obedience doesn't come naturally
to you, does it?
No...
sir.
I must take some of the blame, I suppose.
The sea does not like to be restrained.
[♪ pensive instrumental music playing]
Patros.
That's the only word I really caught.
It means "father."
Right?
Chiron has taught you well.
I didn't learn it from Chiron.
[♪ music becomes poignant]
[Poseidon chuckles softly]
Your mother taught you Ancient Greek?
She taught me a lot of things.
Can I ask you a question?
I don't know when Hades will return her.
He can be difficult
when he wants to make a point.
Do you dream?
Ares said gods don't dream.
[Poseidon scoffs lightly]
Ares is a moron.
Perhaps you noticed?
Of course we dream.
Why do you ask?
Do you ever dream about Mom?
[♪ music swells]
[chuckles softly]
[ethereal ringing]
You should be going.
[♪ music concludes]
- [distant thunder]
- [birds cawing]
[♪ heartfelt instrumental music playing]
[birds chirping]
- [♪ music continues]
- [inaudible applause]
- [applause]
- [cheering]
[♪ music swells]
Do you see her yet?
[♪ music becomes ominous]
Why is she--
Don't... say anything.
I'll explain.
[cheering and applause]
[Percy] Clarisse stole the master bolt.
It's complicated.
How is it complicated?
Everyone was ready to join the war here.
To start fighting each other.
- An accusation against Clarisse--
- Without proof.
Exactly.
Without proof, it would have
lit this whole place on fire.
But now you're back.
[♪ expectant instrumental music playing]
You've stopped the war.
You've saved the world.
Now, it's safe to tell Chiron
and finish cleaning up the mess.
I told him we needed to meet him
away from the celebration
so we can talk without any
of Clarisse's supporters noticing.
I'll keep an eye on Clarisse
while you're gone.
Make sure she isn't going anywhere.
Great. And we'll meet back here.
- [♪ music continues]
- [Luke exhales]
Ready?
[♪ music intensifies, concludes]
- [fireworks booming, whizzing]
- [Percy chuckles softly]
[Luke] Talk about a celebration.
They really pulled out
all the stops for you.
Come on, you've said, like, two words
since we left the cabins.
[Percy] Just...
thinking about what the Oracle said.
That I'll fail to save
what matters most in the end.
[Luke] You're thinking about your mom.
I get that.
Believe me, I do.
But prophecies?
- Those things are so vague.
- [Percy] The quest is over,
and everything the Oracle said
has either come true or makes sense.
- [♪ tense instrumental music playing]
- Has it?
"You shall go west and face the God
who has turned."
Ares. Okay.
"Find what was stolen
and see it returned."
Clearly the bolt.
"And you shall be betrayed...
by one who calls you a friend."
Well, the reason Clarisse
is still here is because...
you never said anything to Chiron
about her.
Did you?
You couldn't...
because you knew
Clarisse didn't steal the bolt.
You did.
You worked with Ares to plant it on me
so when the shoes you gave me
pulled me down into Tartarus,
the bolt would be delivered
right to Kronos.
[♪ ominous instrumental music playing]
I didn't think
you'd give 'em to Grover to wear.
[Luke] I am your friend.
Percy, none of this
was meant to betray you.
The gods are my enemy.
You...
I'm here to recruit.
[♪ music intensifies]
Recruit?
[sword unsheathing]
[metallic vibrating]
[Luke] Easy.
I don't wanna fight.
This is what I wanted to show you.
[♪ ominous instrumental music playing]
This...
is our way out.
Way out of what?
Camp.
[portal thrumming]
[♪ music intensifies]
And their control.
Backbiter can open secret doors.
We can stay on the run
as long as it takes.
Stop saying "we."
It's the word Zeus fears the most.
The gods want us to fight for them,
worship them, fear them.
- And they couldn't care less what we want.
- [♪ dramatic instrumental music playing]
They're bad parents, Percy.
And they've gotten away with it
for far too long.
No.
This isn't you.
This is Kronos. He got to you.
No, he opened my eyes to the truth.
[♪ music becomes foreboding]
A golden age.
That's what they called it when he ruled.
We're gonna help Kronos
bring the Golden Age back.
Stealing the bolt and the helm was easy.
For what comes next...
we're gonna need all the help we can get.
[swords clashing]
Our parents aren't perfect,
but they're trying their best.
I met your dad.
But he--
- [Luke grunting]
- [swords clashing]
[both grunting]
[panting]
You did get better.
[swords clashing]
[♪ dramatic instrumental music playing]
[portal thrumming]
Last chance.
[swords clashing]
- [sword slicing]
- [Luke groans]
I'm sorry.
- I didn't mean to--
- [sword slicing]
- [♪ tense instrumental music playing]
- [panting]
- [twigs cracking]
- [dagger whooshing]
[♪ music becomes somber]
Annabeth?
I heard everything.
[♪ music intensifies]
[portal whooshing]
[Percy panting]
[♪ emotional instrumental music playing]
[Chiron] None of this is easy.
Saying goodbye.
I may not be gone long.
I just need to see
if Hades has returned her yet.
And you're certain
that you won't accept...
an armed escort?
I told you,
I don't think Luke wants to kill me.
I don't think he does, either.
That's what scares me.
When Luke explained
why he planned to take down Olympus,
part of it made sense to you, didn't it?
Hmm?
Luke knows that you'd be a powerful ally
to his cause.
And his master, Kronos,
he can be very, very persuasive.
[♪ music continues]
Yeah.
But I'm very, very stubborn.
You have to be very careful.
You're more than a hero now.
You are a leader
in the eyes of your fellow half-bloods.
You have made me very proud.
[Dionysus] Great.
You're still here.
I was just leaving.
Thank you.
No. Thank you, Percy.
Wait. Percy?
Yes?
No. I mean, that's your name?
- Yes.
- [Dionysus] Are you sure?
- 'Cause I'm 90% sure it's Peter--
- Percy.
[♪ tender instrumental music playing]
Percy Jackson.
I don't think so.
I'm pretty sure I know my own name.
Ah, you know what? I don't actually care.
[shouting] Okay!
For those of you
who are not staying for the full term...
[shouting] ...get out!
You get out.
Pack your bags. You're going home.
[♪ music continues]
How does she feel about all of this?
You going home to see your dad?
It's a tree, Seaweed Brain.
It doesn't express opinions.
But I imagine she's thrilled.
And how do you feel about it?
[bird cawing]
Well,
he wants to show me New York City first,
so I'm gonna pretend I haven't been there,
and then some place called Disney World,
which kinda sounds like Waterland
but... less determined to kill you.
Wait, did I read that wrong?
What am I walking into?
Is there something
you're supposed to do there?
Just...
be a kid.
[Grover] Guys! Guys!
You got it?
Where is it?
[♪ music continues]
Is that your Searcher's license?
Yeah.
Officially authorized
to begin the quest for Pan!
- [♪ music becomes hopeful]
- Where are you gonna start?
Well, it seems like every inch
of the natural world's
been checked, noted, and footnoted.
Then checked again.
The Council's theory is that Pan
is always on the move,
and it's all about timing.
But...
no one's ever bothered
to check the seas.
I know some people in management
out there,
if you ever need some help.
I'll find you.
[♪ music continues]
Listen...
Let's make a pact.
Right now.
No matter what happens,
we meet back here next year.
All of us.
Right here.
Deal?
[♪ music intensifies]
[♪ music concludes]
[seagull squawks]
[door creaks]
[floorboards creaking]
[Sally] Percy?
[exhales sharply]
[♪ poignant instrumental music playing]
[Sally exhales]
What happened?
It's a long story.
But a good one.
It's time to wake up.
[rumbling]
[♪ ominous instrumental music playing]
[creaking]
[Percy] Are you serious?
We're still doing this?
I won. You lost.
Get out of my dreams already.
[Kronos, chuckling] Soon enough,
we'll meet in your world.
If you can survive what's next.
Well, it turns out
I'm pretty good at this.
So, when you are serious...
come find me.
[Kronos] That is my hope.
Your survival
is the key to my return.
[breath whooshing loudly]
- [curtains clanking]
- [♪ music concludes]
[Sally] No kidding, kiddo.
Time to wake up.
[traffic rumbling in distance]
[Sally exhales]
No, come on.
Breakfast awaits. Seventh grade awaits.
Let's get this party started.
[Sally groans softly]
Probably would've helped
if I slept a little bit.
Did you have another nightmare?
- Grandpa.
- Oh.
Ugh. Don't call him that.
All right.
What did he say this time?
He said...
[♪ pensive instrumental music playing]
"Don't forget to tell your mom
how much you love her today."
Kronos,
Lord of the Titans, said that?
I mean, he could have.
[♪ adventurous instrumental music playing]
[Percy] The stories you heard
about Greek gods, heroes, and monsters?
I'm here to tell you they're real.
If you ever feel like you don't fit,
like the world doesn't make sense...
then you might be a part of our world.
So, don't give up.
'Cause we might need you
for the fight ahead.
- [thunder crashing loudly]
- [♪ music intensifies, concludes]
[♪ adventurous theme music playing]
[♪ theme music concludes]
[Gabe] You call yourself a lawyer?
This is outrageous!
My wife is divorcing me,
and on top of that,
I gotta pay you, too?
How is that fair?
Well, who--
Who told you to take out law school loans?
- [keys clinking]
- It wasn't my idea!
That was yours, buddy!
[key rattling]
- [police siren in the background]
- Oh! You've gotta be kidding me!
She changed the locks!
Now, what am I supposed to do?
No. No, I mean...
do you know how to pick a lock?
Hello?
Look at this...
"Return to sender"?
"To Percy Jackson."
"From the gods"?
[scoffs] Cute.
[♪ tense instrumental music playing]
[grunting] Oh!
Well, that is gross!
- [ethereal ringing]
- [crackling]
[♪ music concludes]
[♪ theme music continues]
[♪ theme music concludes]